#LyX 1.1 Copyright 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 0
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Standard

Chapter 17
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

After a
\protected_separator 
 fairly
\protected_separator 
 shaky
\protected_separator 
 start
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 day,
\protected_separator 
 Arthur's
\protected_separator 
 mind
\protected_separator 
 was
\layout Standard

beginning
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 reassemble
\protected_separator 
 itself from the shellshocked fragments
\layout Standard

the previous day had left him with.
 He had
\protected_separator 
 found
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 Nutri-Matic
\layout Standard

machine
\protected_separator 
 which
\protected_separator 
 had provided him with a plastic cup filled with a
\layout Standard

liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike
\protected_separator 
 tea.
\protected_separator 
 The
\layout Standard

way it functioned was very interesting.
 When the Drink button was
\layout Standard

pressed it made an instant but highly detailed examination of the
\layout Standard

subject's
\protected_separator 
 taste
\protected_separator 
 buds, a spectroscopic analysis of the subject's
\layout Standard

metabolism and then
\protected_separator 
 sent
\protected_separator 
 tiny
\protected_separator 
 experimental
\protected_separator 
 signals
\protected_separator 
 down
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

neural
\protected_separator 
 pathways
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 the taste centres of the subject's brain to
\layout Standard

see what was likely to go down well.
 However, no one
\protected_separator 
 knew
\protected_separator 
 quite
\layout Standard

why
\protected_separator 
 it
\protected_separator 
 did
\protected_separator 
 this
\protected_separator 
 because
\protected_separator 
 it
\protected_separator 
 invariably delivered a cupful of
\layout Standard

liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike
\protected_separator 
 tea.
\protected_separator 
 The
\layout Standard

Nutri-Matic
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 designed
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 manufactured
\protected_separator 
 by
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 Sirius
\layout Standard

Cybernetics Corporation whose complaints
\protected_separator 
 department
\protected_separator 
 now
\protected_separator 
 covers
\layout Standard

all
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 major
\protected_separator 
 land
\protected_separator 
 masses
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 the first three planets in the
\layout Standard

Sirius Tau Star system.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Arthur drank the liquid and found it reviving.
 He glanced
\protected_separator 
 up
\protected_separator 
 at
\layout Standard

the
\protected_separator 
 screens again and watched a few more hundred miles of barren
\layout Standard

greyness slide past.
\protected_separator 
 It
\protected_separator 
 suddenly
\protected_separator 
 occurred
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 him
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 ask
\protected_separator 
 a
\layout Standard

question which had been bothering him.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Is it safe?" he said.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Magrathea's been dead for five million years," said Zaphod,
\protected_separator 
 "of
\layout Standard

course
\protected_separator 
 it's
\protected_separator 
 safe.
\protected_separator 
 Even
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 ghosts will have settled down and
\layout Standard

raised
\protected_separator 
 families
\protected_separator 
 by
\protected_separator 
 now."
\protected_separator 
 At
\protected_separator 
 which
\protected_separator 
 point
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 strange
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 and
\layout Standard

inexplicable sound thrilled suddenly through the bridge - a noise
\layout Standard

as of a distant fanfare; a hollow, reedy, insubstantial sound.
 It
\layout Standard

preceded
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 voice
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 that
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 equally
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 hollow,
\protected_separator 
 reedy
\protected_separator 
 and
\layout Standard

insubstantial.
 The voice said "Greetings to you ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Someone from the dead planet was talking to them.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Computer!" shouted Zaphod.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Hi there!"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"What the photon is it?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Oh, just some five-million-year-old tape that's being
\protected_separator 
 broadcast
\layout Standard

at us."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"A what? A recording?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Shush!" said Ford.
 "It's carrying on."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The
\protected_separator 
 voice
\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 
 old,
\protected_separator 
 courteous,
\protected_separator 
 almost
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 charming,
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 but
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 was
\layout Standard

underscored with quite unmistakable menace.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"This is a recorded announcement," it said, "as I'm afraid
\protected_separator 
 we're
\layout Standard

all out at the moment.
 The commercial council of Magrathea thanks
\layout Standard

you for your esteemed visit ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

("A voice from ancient Magrathea!" shouted Zaphod.
 "OK, OK," said
\layout Standard

Ford.)
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"...
 but regrets," continued the voice, "that the
\protected_separator 
 entire
\protected_separator 
 planet
\layout Standard

is
\protected_separator 
 temporarily closed for business.
 Thank you.
 If you would care
\layout Standard

to leave your name and the address of a planet where you
\protected_separator 
 can
\protected_separator 
 be
\layout Standard

contacted, kindly speak when you hear the tone."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

A short buzz followed, then silence.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"They want to get rid of us," said Trillian nervously.
\protected_separator 
 "What
\protected_separator 
 do
\layout Standard

we do?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"It's just a recording," said Zaphod.
 "We keep going.
\protected_separator 
 Got
\protected_separator 
 that,
\layout Standard

computer?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I got it," said the computer and gave the ship an extra kick
\protected_separator 
 of
\layout Standard

speed.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

They waited.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

After a second or so came the fanfare once again,
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 then
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

voice.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"We would like to assure you that as
\protected_separator 
 soon
\protected_separator 
 as
\protected_separator 
 our
\protected_separator 
 business
\protected_separator 
 is
\layout Standard

resumed
\protected_separator 
 announcements
\protected_separator 
 will be made in all fashionable magazines
\layout Standard

and colour supplements, when our clients will once again be
\protected_separator 
 able
\layout Standard

to
\protected_separator 
 select
\protected_separator 
 from
\protected_separator 
 all that's best in contemporary geography." The
\layout Standard

menace in the voice took on a sharper edge.
 "Meanwhile
\protected_separator 
 we
\protected_separator 
 thank
\layout Standard

our
\protected_separator 
 clients for their kind interest and would ask them to leave.
\layout Standard

Now."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Arthur looked round the nervous faces of his companions.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Well, I suppose we'd
\protected_separator 
 better
\protected_separator 
 be
\protected_separator 
 going
\protected_separator 
 then,
\protected_separator 
 hadn't
\protected_separator 
 we?"
\protected_separator 
 he
\layout Standard

suggested.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Shhh!" said Zaphod.
 "There's absolutely nothing
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 be
\protected_separator 
 worried
\layout Standard

about."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Then why's everyone so tense?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"They're just interested!" shouted
\protected_separator 
 Zaphod.
\protected_separator 
 "Computer,
\protected_separator 
 start
\protected_separator 
 a
\layout Standard

descent into the atmosphere and prepare for landing."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

This time the fanfare was quite perfunctory, the voice distinctly
\layout Standard

cold.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"It is most gratifying," it said, "that your enthusiasm
\protected_separator 
 for
\protected_separator 
 our
\layout Standard

planet
\protected_separator 
 continues
\protected_separator 
 unabated,
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 so we would like to assure you
\layout Standard

that the guided missiles currently converging with your ship
\protected_separator 
 are
\layout Standard

part
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 special
\protected_separator 
 service
\protected_separator 
 we
\protected_separator 
 extend
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 all
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 our
\protected_separator 
 most
\layout Standard

enthusiastic clients, and the fully armed nuclear warheads are of
\layout Standard

course
\protected_separator 
 merely
\protected_separator 
 a courtesy detail.
 We look forward to your custom
\layout Standard

in future lives ...
 thank you."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The voice snapped off.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Oh," said Trillian.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Er ..." said Arthur.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Well?" said Ford.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Look," said Zaphod, "will you get it
\protected_separator 
 into
\protected_separator 
 your
\protected_separator 
 heads?
\protected_separator 
 That's
\layout Standard

just
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 recorded message.
 It's millions of years old.
 It doesn't
\layout Standard

apply to us, get it?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"What," said Trillian quietly, "about the missiles?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Missiles? Don't make me laugh."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Ford tapped Zaphod on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 shoulder
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 pointed
\protected_separator 
 at
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 rear
\layout Standard

screen.
\protected_separator 
 Clear
\protected_separator 
 in the distance behind them two silver darts were
\layout Standard

climbing through the atmosphere towards the ship.
 A quick
\protected_separator 
 change
\layout Standard

of
\protected_separator 
 magnification
\protected_separator 
 brought
\protected_separator 
 them into close focus - two massively
\layout Standard

real rockets thundering through the sky.
 The suddenness of it was
\layout Standard

shocking.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I think they're going to have a very good
\protected_separator 
 try
\protected_separator 
 at
\protected_separator 
 applying
\protected_separator 
 to
\layout Standard

us," said Ford.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod stared at them in astonishment.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Hey this is terrific!" he said.
 "Someone down there is trying to
\layout Standard

kill us!"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Terrific," said Arthur.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"But don't you see what this means?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Yes.
 We're going to die."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Yes, but apart from that."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Apart from that?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"It means we must be on to something!"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"How soon can we get off it?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Second by second the image of the missiles on the
\protected_separator 
 screen
\protected_separator 
 became
\layout Standard

larger.
\protected_separator 
 They had swung round now on to a direct homing course so
\layout Standard

that all that could be seen of them now was
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 warheads,
\protected_separator 
 head
\layout Standard

on.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"As a matter of interest," said Trillian, "what are we
\protected_separator 
 going
\protected_separator 
 to
\layout Standard

do?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Just keep cool," said Zaphod.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Is that all?" shouted Arthur.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"No, we're also going to ...
 er ...
 take
\protected_separator 
 evasive
\protected_separator 
 action!"
\protected_separator 
 said
\layout Standard

Zaphod
\protected_separator 
 with
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 sudden
\protected_separator 
 access of panic.
 "Computer, what evasive
\layout Standard

action can we take?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Er, none I'm afraid, guys," said the computer.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"...
 or something," said Zaphod, "...
 er ..." he said.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"There
\protected_separator 
 seems
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 be
\protected_separator 
 something
\protected_separator 
 jamming
\protected_separator 
 my
\protected_separator 
 guidance
\protected_separator 
 system,"
\layout Standard

explained
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 computer
\protected_separator 
 brightly,
\protected_separator 
 "impact
\protected_separator 
 minus
\protected_separator 
 forty-five
\layout Standard

seconds.
 Please call me Eddie if it will help you to relax."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod tried
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 run
\protected_separator 
 in
\protected_separator 
 several
\protected_separator 
 equally
\protected_separator 
 decisive
\protected_separator 
 directions
\layout Standard

simultaneously.
 "Right!" he said.
 "Er ...
 we've got to get manual
\layout Standard

control of this ship."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Can you fly her?" asked Ford pleasantly.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"No, can you?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"No."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Trillian, can you?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"No."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Fine," said Zaphod, relaxing.
 "We'll do it together."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I can't either," said Arthur, who felt it was time he
\protected_separator 
 began
\protected_separator 
 to
\layout Standard

assert himself.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I'd guessed that," said Zaphod.
 "OK computer, I want full manual
\layout Standard

control now."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"You got it," said the computer.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Several large desk panels slid open and banks of control consoles
\layout Standard

sprang
\protected_separator 
 up
\protected_separator 
 out of them, showering the crew with bits of expanded
\layout Standard

polystyrene packaging and balls of
\protected_separator 
 rolled-up
\protected_separator 
 cellophane:
\protected_separator 
 these
\layout Standard

controls had never been used before.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod stared at them wildly.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"OK,
\protected_separator 
 Ford,"
\protected_separator 
 he
\protected_separator 
 said,
\protected_separator 
 "full
\protected_separator 
 retro
\protected_separator 
 thrust
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 ten
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 degrees
\layout Standard

starboard.
 Or something ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Good luck guys," chirped
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 computer,
\protected_separator 
 "impact
\protected_separator 
 minus
\protected_separator 
 thirty
\layout Standard

seconds ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Ford leapt to the
\protected_separator 
 controls
\protected_separator 
 -
\protected_separator 
 only
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 few
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 them
\protected_separator 
 made
\protected_separator 
 any
\layout Standard

immediate
\protected_separator 
 sense
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 him
\protected_separator 
 so he pulled those.
 The ship shook and
\layout Standard

screamed as its guidance rocked jets tried to push it every which
\layout Standard

way
\protected_separator 
 simultaneously.
\protected_separator 
 He
\protected_separator 
 released half of them and the ship span
\layout Standard

round in a tight arc
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 headed
\protected_separator 
 back
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 way
\protected_separator 
 it
\protected_separator 
 had
\protected_separator 
 come,
\layout Standard

straight towards the oncoming missiles.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Air cushions ballooned out of the walls in an instant as everyone
\layout Standard

was
\protected_separator 
 thrown
\protected_separator 
 against
\protected_separator 
 them.
 For a few seconds the inertial forces
\layout Standard

held them flattened and squirming for
\protected_separator 
 breath,
\protected_separator 
 unable
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 move.
\layout Standard

Zaphod
\protected_separator 
 struggled
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 pushed
\protected_separator 
 in
\protected_separator 
 manic desperation and finally
\layout Standard

managed a savage kick at a small lever that formed
\protected_separator 
 part
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

guidance system.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The lever snapped off.
 The
\protected_separator 
 ship
\protected_separator 
 twisted
\protected_separator 
 sharply
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 rocketed
\layout Standard

upwards.
\protected_separator 
 The
\protected_separator 
 crew
\protected_separator 
 were hurled violently back across the cabin.
\layout Standard

Ford's copy of The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy smashed into
\layout Standard

another
\protected_separator 
 section
\protected_separator 
 of the control console with the combined result
\layout Standard

that the guide started to explain to anyone who cared
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 listen
\layout Standard

about
\protected_separator 
 the best ways of smuggling Antarean parakeet glands out of
\layout Standard

Antares (an Antarean parakeet gland stuck on a small stick
\protected_separator 
 is
\protected_separator 
 a
\layout Standard

revolting
\protected_separator 
 but much sought after cocktail delicacy and very large
\layout Standard

sums of money are often paid for them by
\protected_separator 
 very
\protected_separator 
 rich
\protected_separator 
 idiots
\protected_separator 
 who
\layout Standard

want
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 impress
\protected_separator 
 other very rich idiots), and the ship suddenly
\layout Standard

dropped out of the sky like a stone.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

It was of course more or less at this moment that one of the crew
\layout Standard

sustained
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 nasty
\protected_separator 
 bruise
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 upper
\protected_separator 
 arm.
\protected_separator 
 This should be
\layout Standard

emphasized because, as had already
\protected_separator 
 been
\protected_separator 
 revealed,
\protected_separator 
 they
\protected_separator 
 escape
\layout Standard

otherwise
\protected_separator 
 completely unharmed and the deadly nuclear missiles do
\layout Standard

not eventually hit the ship.
 The safety of the crew is absolutely
\layout Standard

assured.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Impact minus twenty seconds, guys ..." said the computer.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Then turn the bloody engines back on!" bawled Zaphod.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"OK, sure thing, guys," said the computer.
 With a subtle roar the
\layout Standard

engines
\protected_separator 
 cut back in, the ship smoothly flattened out of its dive
\layout Standard

and headed back towards the missiles again.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The computer started to sing.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"When you walk through the storm ..." it
\protected_separator 
 whined
\protected_separator 
 nasally,
\protected_separator 
 "hold
\layout Standard

your head up high ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod screamed at it to shut up, but his voice was lost
\protected_separator 
 in
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

din
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 what
\protected_separator 
 they
\protected_separator 
 quite
\protected_separator 
 naturally
\protected_separator 
 assumed
\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 
 approaching
\layout Standard

destruction.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"And don't ...
 be afraid ...
 of the dark!" Eddie wailed.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The ship, in flattening out had in fact flattened out upside down
\layout Standard

and
\protected_separator 
 lying
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 ceiling
\protected_separator 
 as
\protected_separator 
 they
\protected_separator 
 were
\protected_separator 
 it
\protected_separator 
 was now totally
\layout Standard

impossible for any of the crew to reach the guidance systems.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"At the end of the storm ..." crooned Eddie.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The
\protected_separator 
 two
\protected_separator 
 missiles
\protected_separator 
 loomed
\protected_separator 
 massively
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 screens
\protected_separator 
 as
\protected_separator 
 they
\layout Standard

thundered towards the ship.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"...
 is a golden sky ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

But by an extraordinarily lucky chance they
\protected_separator 
 had
\protected_separator 
 not
\protected_separator 
 yet
\protected_separator 
 fully
\layout Standard

corrected
\protected_separator 
 their
\protected_separator 
 flight paths to that of the erratically weaving
\layout Standard

ship, and they passed right under it.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"And the sweet silver songs of the lark ...
 Revised
\protected_separator 
 impact
\protected_separator 
 time
\layout Standard

fifteen seconds fellas ...
 Walk on through the wind ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The missiles banked round in a screeching arc
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 plunged
\protected_separator 
 back
\layout Standard

into pursuit.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"This is it," said
\protected_separator 
 Arthur
\protected_separator 
 watching
\protected_separator 
 them.
\protected_separator 
 "We
\protected_separator 
 are
\protected_separator 
 now
\protected_separator 
 quite
\layout Standard

definitely going to die aren't we?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I wish you'd stop saying that," shouted Ford.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Well we are aren't we?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Yes."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Walk on through the rain ..." sang Eddie.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

A thought struck Arthur.
 He struggled to his feet.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Why doesn't anyone turn on this Improbability Drive
\protected_separator 
 thing?"
\protected_separator 
 he
\layout Standard

said.
 "We could probably reach that."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"What are you crazy?" said Zaphod.
\protected_separator 
 "Without
\protected_separator 
 proper
\protected_separator 
 programming
\layout Standard

anything could happen."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Does that matter at this stage?" shouted Arthur.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Though your dreams be tossed and blown ..." sand Eddie.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Arthur scrambled up on to one end of the excitingly chunky pieces
\layout Standard

of
\protected_separator 
 moulded
\protected_separator 
 contouring
\protected_separator 
 where
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 curve
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 wall met the
\layout Standard

ceiling.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Walk on, walk on, with hope in your heart ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Does anyone know why Arthur
\protected_separator 
 can't
\protected_separator 
 turn
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 Improbability
\layout Standard

Drive?" shouted Trillian.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"And you'll never walk alone ...
 Impact minus five seconds,
\protected_separator 
 it's
\layout Standard

been
\protected_separator 
 great knowing you guys, God bless ...
 You'll ne ...
 ver ...
\layout Standard

walk ...
 alone!"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I said," yelled Trillian, "does anyone know ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

The next thing that happened
\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 mid-mangling
\protected_separator 
 explosion
\protected_separator 
 of
\layout Standard

noise and light.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

=================================================================
\layout Standard

Chapter 18
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

And the next thing that happened after that was that the Heart of
\layout Standard

Gold
\protected_separator 
 continued
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 its
\protected_separator 
 way
\protected_separator 
 perfectly
\protected_separator 
 normally
\protected_separator 
 with a rather
\layout Standard

fetchingly redesigned interior.
 It was somewhat larger, and
\protected_separator 
 done
\layout Standard

out
\protected_separator 
 in delicate pastel shades of green and blue.
 In the centre a
\layout Standard

spiral staircase, leading nowhere in particular, stood in a spray
\layout Standard

of
\protected_separator 
 ferns
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 yellow
\protected_separator 
 flowers
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 next
\protected_separator 
 to it a stone sundial
\layout Standard

pedestal housed the main computer
\protected_separator 
 terminal.
\protected_separator 
 Cunningly
\protected_separator 
 deployed
\layout Standard

lighting
\protected_separator 
 and
\protected_separator 
 mirrors
\protected_separator 
 created
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 illusion
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 standing in a
\layout Standard

conservatory overlooking a wide stretch of exquisitely
\protected_separator 
 manicured
\layout Standard

garden.
\protected_separator 
 Around
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 periphery
\protected_separator 
 of
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 conservatory area stood
\layout Standard

marble-topped tables on intricately beautiful wrought-iron
\protected_separator 
 legs.
\layout Standard

As
\protected_separator 
 you
\protected_separator 
 gazed
\protected_separator 
 into the polished surface of the marble the vague
\layout Standard

forms of instruments became visible, and as you touched them
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

instruments
\protected_separator 
 materialized
\protected_separator 
 instantly
\protected_separator 
 under your hands.
 Looked at
\layout Standard

from the correct angles the mirrors appeared to reflect
\protected_separator 
 all
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

required
\protected_separator 
 data
\protected_separator 
 readouts, though it was far from clear where they
\layout Standard

were reflected from.
 It was in fact sensationally beautiful.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Relaxing in a wickerwork sun chair, Zaphod Beeblebrox said, "What
\layout Standard

the hell happened?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Well I was just saying," said Arthur lounging by
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 small
\protected_separator 
 fish
\layout Standard

pool,
\protected_separator 
 "there's this Improbability Drive switch over here ..." he
\layout Standard

waved at where it had been.
 There was a potted plant there now.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"But where are we?" said Ford
\protected_separator 
 who
\protected_separator 
 was
\protected_separator 
 sitting
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 spiral
\layout Standard

staircase,
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 nicely
\protected_separator 
 chilled Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster in his
\layout Standard

hand.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Exactly where we were, I think ..." said Trillian, as all
\protected_separator 
 about
\layout Standard

them
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 mirrors showed them an image of the blighted landscape
\layout Standard

of Magrathea which still scooted along beneath them.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod leapt out of his seat.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Then what's happened to the missiles?" he said.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

A new and astounding image appeared in the mirrors.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"They would appear," said Ford doubtfully, "to have turned into a
\layout Standard

bowl of petunias and a very surprised looking whale ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"At an Improbability Factor," cut in Eddie, who hadn't changed
\protected_separator 
 a
\layout Standard

bit, "of eight million seven hundred and sixty-seven thousand one
\layout Standard

hundred and twenty-eight to one against."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Zaphod stared at Arthur.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Did you think of that, Earthman?" he demanded.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Well," said Arthur, "all I did was ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"That's very good thinking you know.
 Turn
\protected_separator 
 on
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 Improbability
\layout Standard

Drive for a second without first activating the proofing screens.
\layout Standard

Hey kid you just saved our lives, you know that?"
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Oh," said Arthur, "well, it was nothing really ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"Was it?" said Zaphod.
 "Oh well, forget it
\protected_separator 
 then.
\protected_separator 
 OK,
\protected_separator 
 computer,
\layout Standard

take us in to land."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"But ..."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

"I said forget it."
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Another thing that got forgotten was the fact
\protected_separator 
 that
\protected_separator 
 against
\protected_separator 
 all
\layout Standard

probability a sperm whale had suddenly been called into existence
\layout Standard

several miles above the surface of an alien planet.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

And since this is not a naturally tenable position for
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 whale,
\layout Standard

this poor innocent creature had very little time to come to terms
\layout Standard

with its identity as a whale before it then had to come to
\protected_separator 
 terms
\layout Standard

with not being a whale any more.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

This is a complete record of its
\protected_separator 
 thoughts
\protected_separator 
 from
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 moment
\protected_separator 
 it
\layout Standard

began its life till the moment it ended it.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Ah ...
 ! What's happening? it thought.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Er, excuse me, who am I?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Hello?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Why am I here? What's my purpose in life?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

What do I mean by who am I?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Calm down, get
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 grip
\protected_separator 
 now
\protected_separator 
 ...
\protected_separator 
 oh!
\protected_separator 
 this
\protected_separator 
 is
\protected_separator 
 an
\protected_separator 
 interesting
\layout Standard

sensation,
\protected_separator 
 what
\protected_separator 
 is
\protected_separator 
 it?
\protected_separator 
 It's
\protected_separator 
 a
\protected_separator 
 sort of ...
 yawning, tingling
\layout Standard

sensation in my ...
 my
\protected_separator 
 ...
\protected_separator 
 well
\protected_separator 
 I
\protected_separator 
 suppose
\protected_separator 
 I'd
\protected_separator 
 better
\protected_separator 
 start
\layout Standard

finding
\protected_separator 
 names
\protected_separator 
 for
\protected_separator 
 things if I want to make any headway in what
\layout Standard

for the sake of what I shall call an argument I
\protected_separator 
 shall
\protected_separator 
 call
\protected_separator 
 the
\layout Standard

world, so let's call it my stomach.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Good.
 Ooooh, it's getting quite strong.
\protected_separator 
 And
\protected_separator 
 hey,
\protected_separator 
 what's
\protected_separator 
 about
\layout Standard

this
\protected_separator 
 whistling
\protected_separator 
 roaring sound going past what I'm suddenly going
\layout Standard

to call my head? Perhaps I can call that ...
 wind! Is that a good
\layout Standard

name?
\protected_separator 
 It'll do ...
 perhaps I can find a better name for it later
\layout Standard

when I've found out what it's for.
\protected_separator 
 It
\protected_separator 
 must
\protected_separator 
 be
\protected_separator 
 something
\protected_separator 
 very
\layout Standard

important
\protected_separator 
 because there certainly seems to be a hell of a lot of
\layout Standard

it.
 Hey! What's this thing? This ...
 let's call it a tail - yeah,
\layout Standard

tail.
\protected_separator 
 Hey! I can can really thrash it about pretty good can't I?
\layout Standard

Wow! Wow! That feels great! Doesn't seem to achieve very much but
\layout Standard

I'll probably find out what it's for later on.
 Now - have I built
\layout Standard

up any coherent picture of things yet?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

No.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Never mind, hey, this is really exciting, so
\protected_separator 
 much
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 find
\protected_separator 
 out
\layout Standard

about,
\protected_separator 
 so
\protected_separator 
 much
\protected_separator 
 to
\protected_separator 
 look
\protected_separator 
 forward
\protected_separator 
 to,
\protected_separator 
 I'm
\protected_separator 
 quite
\protected_separator 
 dizzy
\protected_separator 
 with
\layout Standard

anticipation ...
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Or is it the wind?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

There really is a lot of that now isn't it?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

And wow! Hey! What's this thing suddenly coming towards
\protected_separator 
 me
\protected_separator 
 very
\layout Standard

fast?
\protected_separator 
 Very
\protected_separator 
 very fast.
 So big and flat and round, it needs a big
\layout Standard

wide sounding name like ...
 ow ...
 ound
\protected_separator 
 ...
\protected_separator 
 round
\protected_separator 
 ...
\protected_separator 
 ground!
\layout Standard

That's it! That's a good name - ground!
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

I wonder if it will be friends with me?
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

And the rest, after a sudden wet thud, was silence.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\layout Standard

Curiously enough, the only thing that went through
\protected_separator 
 the
\protected_separator 
 mind
\protected_separator 
 of
\layout Standard

the bowl of petunias as it fell was Oh no, not again.
 Many people
\layout Standard

have speculated that if we knew exactly why the bowl of
\protected_separator 
 petunias
\layout Standard

had thought that we would know a lot more about the nature of the
\layout Standard

universe than we do now.
\layout Standard


\protected_separator 

\the_end
