#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 2.16
\textclass letter
\language default
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout My Address

711 Nomad Lane
\newline 
Mt.
 Pleasant, SC 29464
\layout Send To Address

Automated Trading Desk
\newline 
389 Johnnie Dodds Blvd., Suite 200
\newline 
Mt.
 Pleasant, SC 29464
\layout Opening

Dear Mr.
 Butler:
\layout Standard

I am writing in regard to the career opportunities mentioned on your web
 page.
 I would like to be considered for the position of C++ Programmer.
 I am sure you will find my C++ programming experience to be much more extensive
 than most students fresh from college, and that my problem-solving skills
 would make me a valuable addition to your team.
\layout Standard

In the summer of 1998, I was looking for a programming project to work on.
 At that time, I felt the Internet community needed a good Windows-based
 telnet client, as none of the products available at the time provided any
 of the features that I needed.
 At the time, Brad Johnson was becoming very busy with other projects, and
 his Console Telnet project was slowing; as a result, he felt it prudent
 to hand the project to someone else.
 Later that summer, I became maintainer of the Console Telnet project.
 The project is roughly 10,000 lines of code and includes an extensive class
 hierarchy.
\layout Standard

I also have experience with computer simulations.
 In the spring of 1998, I took a course in computational science.
 In that class we studied how to optimize code to minimize loss of accuracy,
 as well as other techniques useful in computer simulations, such as simulated
 annealing and solving ODEs.
 I have also written a simple Newtonian physics simulator for a project
 here at Clemson.
\layout Standard

At the Medical University of South Carolina, where I worked as an intern,
 I learned to develop my problem-solving skills and to work with many different
 kinds of people.
 Though we reduced our email conversion time from a two week estimate to
 under two days, my greatest benefit from that job was learning to interact
 with programmers, adminstrators, managers, help desk workers, and customers.
 I learned to work as a team player and how to voice my opinion without
 being imposing.
\layout Standard

More information about my programming experience and work experience is
 included on the attached resume.
 I would, nevertheless, like to meet with you to discuss an opportunity
 for a career with ATD.
 If you would like to discuss this further, please email me at pbranna@clemson.ed
u.
\layout Closing

Sincerely,
\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
\SpecialChar ~

\newline 
Paul Brannan
\the_end
