{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0\fttruetype Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;}
\kerning0\cf0\viewkind1\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\widowctl
\sectd\sbknone\colsx360
\pard{\f0 TO: Dr. Jaye Bausser}
\par\pard{\f0 FROM: Paul Brannan}
\par\pard{\f0 DATE: November 10, 2000}
\par\pard{\f0 SUBJECT: CWP2 Individual Memo}
\par\pard
\par\pard{\f0 Collaborative writing project 2 has been a long process, and it seems it is finally over.  Group work, the editing and revision process, and the preliminary tasks were all significant in the completion of the project.  The work done in the project was divided essentially evenly.  Originally, John wrote the awareness section, Jim wrote instructions for getting out of an elevator and for getting from the stairs out of the building, Suzanne wrote our special considerations section, and I wrote the instructions for getting to the stairs, along with a diagrams.  For the first revision, I collated and edited the document for the group.}
\par\pard
\par\pard{\f0 Initially, we spent a very long time on the preliminary tasks, not realizing how much time we had left until the due date.  We spent a week or so on tasks one and two, though this time did overlap.  Much less time was spent on tasks three and four, since we had to get the project done by the due date.  In retrospect, I feel that tasks one, two, and three were more or less unimportant and a day each would have sufficed.  However, much more time should have been spent on task four, which comprises the bulk of the project.}
\par\pard
\par\pard{\f0 The group seemed to cohere very well; part of this is a result of two group members already knowing each other.  After preliminary task 1, we did not have a group leader, and it turned out that this was the correct decision; the group\uc0\u8217 s \uc0\u8220 leader\uc0\u8221 , in a sense, was the group\uc0\u8217 s collective spirit.  Close to the end (on the second revision), we all had many projects to complete, fall break came around, and sickness was a big problem; we thus worked with much less efficiency, but also with a more laid-back attitude, since we knew the deadline was a long way away.}
\par\pard
\par\pard{\f0 After the second (unofficial) draft had been completed, we re-evaluated what had to be done to complete the project.  We realized that our procedures were incomplete, that the layout did not meet the new specifications discussed in class, and that our diagrams were lacking.  We thus reconsidered our division of labor: each person revised the section that he had originally written, and we each got a new task.  Jim wrote the introduction, John wrote the section on background information, Suzanne wrote the \uc0\u8220 contingencies\uc0\u8221  section (which was a revised version of her original \uc0\u8220 sepcial considerations\uc0\u8221  section), and I drew the new diagrams on the computer.  This final task (the diagrams) turned out to be much more difficult than I had expected; AutoCAD refused to load my document that I had created in Qcad, and creating a diagram that was visually appealing while also collaborating with my group on what features should be in the diagram itself was a daunting process.  Finally, the single diagram was split into two separate diagrams, one for describing the surrounding area (which is a blow-up of the campus map from the Clemson web page), and another describing the evacuation route (which was created with CAD).  The original diagram (the floor layout) was also revised, as it included many inaccuracies.}
\par\pard
\par\pard{\f0 I feel that the final document we created is plagued to what we in the computer science field call \uc0\u8220 creeping featurism.\uc0\u8221   Our original document did not consider many of the features that we wanted to place in the final document, and as a result our layout is lacking and is insufficient to support the content properly.  A complete rewrite of the document would probably not be altogether out of the question, if this were to be correctly.  However, I feel that the document which we have created is, in fact, sufficient for the purposes of this class.  As on the previous collaborative writing project, we probably could have done a better job given a clearer set of initial specifications.}}